README.md, before:

# bitsdojo_window

A [Flutter package](https://pub.dev/packages/bitsdojo_window) that makes it easy to customize and work with your Flutter desktop app window **on both Windows and macOS** . 

Watch the tutorial to get started. Click the image below to watch the video: 

[![IMAGE ALT TEXT](https://img.youtube.com/vi/bee2AHQpGK4/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bee2AHQpGK4 "Click to open")

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bitsdojo/bitsdojo_window/master/resources/screenshot.png">

**Features**:

    - Custom window frame - remove standard Windows/macOS titlebar and buttons
    - Hide window on startup
    - Show/hide window
    - Move window using Flutter widget
    - Minimize/Maximize/Restore/Close window
    - Set window size, minimum size and maximum size
    - Set window position
    - Set window alignment on screen (center/topLeft/topRight/bottomLeft/bottomRight)
    - Set window title


Currently working with Flutter desktop apps for **Windows** and **macOS**. Linux support is also planned in the future.

# Getting Started

Install the package using `pubspec.yaml`

# For Windows apps

Inside your application folder, go to `windows\runner\main.cpp` and add these two lines at the beginning of the file:

```cpp
#include <bitsdojo_window_windows/bitsdojo_window_plugin.h>
auto bdw = bitsdojo_window_configure(BDW_CUSTOM_FRAME | BDW_HIDE_ON_STARTUP);
```

# For macOS apps

Inside your application folder, go to `macos\runner\MainFlutterWindow.swift` and add this line after the one saying `import FlutterMacOS` :

```swift
import FlutterMacOS
import bitsdojo_window_macos // Add this line
```

Then change this line from:

```swift
class MainFlutterWindow: NSWindow {
```

to this:

```swift
class MainFlutterWindow: BitsdojoWindow {
```

After changing `NSWindow` to `BitsdojoWindow` add these lines below the line you changed:

```swift
override func bitsdojo_window_configure() -> UInt {
  return BDW_CUSTOM_FRAME | BDW_HIDE_ON_STARTUP
}
```

Your code should now look like this:

```swift
class MainFlutterWindow: BitsdojoWindow {
    
  override func bitsdojo_window_configure() -> UInt {
    return BDW_CUSTOM_FRAME | BDW_HIDE_ON_STARTUP
  }
    
  override func awakeFromNib() {
    ... //rest of your code
```
#

If you don't want to use a custom frame and prefer the standard window titlebar and buttons, you can remove the `BDW_CUSTOM_FRAME` flag from the code above.

If you don't want to hide the window on startup, you can remove the `BDW_HIDE_ON_STARTUP` flag from the code above.

# Flutter app integration

Now go to `lib\main.dart` and add this code in the `main` function right after `runApp(MyApp());` :

```dart
void main() {
  runApp(MyApp());

  // Add this code below

  doWhenWindowReady(() {
    final initialSize = Size(600, 450);
    appWindow.minSize = initialSize;
    appWindow.size = initialSize;
    appWindow.alignment = Alignment.center;
    appWindow.show();
  });
}
```
This will set an initial size and a minimum size for your application window, center it on the screen and show it on the screen.

You can find examples in the `example` folder.

Here is an example that displays this window:


```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:bitsdojo_window/bitsdojo_window.dart';

void main() {
  runApp(MyApp());
  doWhenWindowReady(() {
    final win = appWindow;
    final initialSize = Size(600, 450);
    win.minSize = initialSize;
    win.size = initialSize;
    win.alignment = Alignment.center;
    win.title = "Custom window with Flutter";
    win.show();
  });
}

const borderColor = Color(0xFF805306);

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
        debugShowCheckedModeBanner: false,
        home: Scaffold(
            body: WindowBorder(
                color: borderColor,
                width: 1,
                child: Row(children: [LeftSide(), RightSide()]))));
  }
}

const sidebarColor = Color(0xFFF6A00C);

class LeftSide extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return SizedBox(
        width: 200,
        child: Container(
            color: sidebarColor,
            child: Column(
              children: [
                WindowTitleBarBox(child: MoveWindow()),
                Expanded(child: Container())
              ],
            )));
  }
}

const backgroundStartColor = Color(0xFFFFD500);
const backgroundEndColor = Color(0xFFF6A00C);

class RightSide extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Expanded(
        child: Container(
            decoration: BoxDecoration(
              gradient: LinearGradient(
                  begin: Alignment.topCenter,
                  end: Alignment.bottomCenter,
                  colors: [backgroundStartColor, backgroundEndColor],
                  stops: [0.0, 1.0]),
            ),
            child: Column(children: [
              WindowTitleBarBox(
                  child: Row(children: [
                Expanded(child: MoveWindow()),
                WindowButtons()
              ])),
            ])));
  }
}

final buttonColors = WindowButtonColors(
    iconNormal: Color(0xFF805306),
    mouseOver: Color(0xFFF6A00C),
    mouseDown: Color(0xFF805306),
    iconMouseOver: Color(0xFF805306),
    iconMouseDown: Color(0xFFFFD500));

final closeButtonColors = WindowButtonColors(
    mouseOver: Color(0xFFD32F2F),
    mouseDown: Color(0xFFB71C1C),
    iconNormal: Color(0xFF805306),
    iconMouseOver: Colors.white);

class WindowButtons extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Row(
      children: [
        MinimizeWindowButton(colors: buttonColors),
        MaximizeWindowButton(colors: buttonColors),
        CloseWindowButton(colors: closeButtonColors),
      ],
    );
```

# ❤️ **Sponsors - friends helping this package**

I am developing this package in my spare time. 
If you want to help so that I can dedicate more time for this, you can become a supporter.

🙏 Thank you!

## ☕️ Coffee supporters:
Helping with a coffee every month:

 - [Aivan Monceller](https://github.com/geocine)

Want to help? [Become a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/bitsdojo)

Commit message:

Added basic Linux usage instructions

README.md, after:

# bitsdojo_window

A [Flutter package](https://pub.dev/packages/bitsdojo_window) that makes it easy to customize and work with your Flutter desktop app window **on both Windows and macOS** . 

Watch the tutorial to get started. Click the image below to watch the video: 

[![IMAGE ALT TEXT](https://img.youtube.com/vi/bee2AHQpGK4/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bee2AHQpGK4 "Click to open")

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bitsdojo/bitsdojo_window/master/resources/screenshot.png">

**Features**:

    - Custom window frame - remove standard Windows/macOS titlebar and buttons
    - Hide window on startup
    - Show/hide window
    - Move window using Flutter widget
    - Minimize/Maximize/Restore/Close window
    - Set window size, minimum size and maximum size
    - Set window position
    - Set window alignment on screen (center/topLeft/topRight/bottomLeft/bottomRight)
    - Set window title


Currently working with Flutter desktop apps for **Windows** and **macOS**. Linux support is also planned in the future.

# Getting Started

Install the package using `pubspec.yaml`

# For Windows apps

Inside your application folder, go to `windows\runner\main.cpp` and add these two lines at the beginning of the file:

```cpp
#include <bitsdojo_window_windows/bitsdojo_window_plugin.h>
auto bdw = bitsdojo_window_configure(BDW_CUSTOM_FRAME | BDW_HIDE_ON_STARTUP);
```

# For macOS apps

Inside your application folder, go to `macos\runner\MainFlutterWindow.swift` and add this line after the one saying `import FlutterMacOS` :

```swift
import FlutterMacOS
import bitsdojo_window_macos // Add this line
```

Then change this line from:

```swift
class MainFlutterWindow: NSWindow {
```

to this:

```swift
class MainFlutterWindow: BitsdojoWindow {
```

After changing `NSWindow` to `BitsdojoWindow` add these lines below the line you changed:

```swift
override func bitsdojo_window_configure() -> UInt {
  return BDW_CUSTOM_FRAME | BDW_HIDE_ON_STARTUP
}
```

Your code should now look like this:

```swift
class MainFlutterWindow: BitsdojoWindow {
    
  override func bitsdojo_window_configure() -> UInt {
    return BDW_CUSTOM_FRAME | BDW_HIDE_ON_STARTUP
  }
    
  override func awakeFromNib() {
    ... //rest of your code
```
#

If you don't want to use a custom frame and prefer the standard window titlebar and buttons, you can remove the `BDW_CUSTOM_FRAME` flag from the code above.

If you don't want to hide the window on startup, you can remove the `BDW_HIDE_ON_STARTUP` flag from the code above.

# For Linux apps

Inside your application folder, go to `linux\my_application.cc` and add this line at the beginning of the file:

```cpp
#include <bitsdojo_window_linux/bitsdojo_window_plugin.h>
```
Then look for these two lines:

```cpp
gtk_window_set_default_size(window, 1280, 720);
gtk_widget_show(GTK_WIDGET(window));
```
and change them to this:

```cpp
auto bdw = bitsdojo_window_from(window);            // <--- add this line
bdw->setCustomFrame(true);                          // <-- add this line
//gtk_window_set_default_size(window, 1280, 720);   // <-- comment this line
gtk_widget_show(GTK_WIDGET(window));
```

As you can see, we commented the line calling `gtk_window_set_default_size` and added these two lines before `gtk_widget_show(GTK_WIDGET(window));`

```cpp
auto bdw = bitsdojo_window_from(window);
bdw->setCustomFrame(true);
```

# Flutter app integration

Now go to `lib\main.dart` and add this code in the `main` function right after `runApp(MyApp());` :

```dart
void main() {
  runApp(MyApp());

  // Add this code below

  doWhenWindowReady(() {
    final initialSize = Size(600, 450);
    appWindow.minSize = initialSize;
    appWindow.size = initialSize;
    appWindow.alignment = Alignment.center;
    appWindow.show();
  });
}
```
This will set an initial size and a minimum size for your application window, center it on the screen and show it on the screen.

You can find examples in the `example` folder.

Here is an example that displays this window:


```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';
import 'package:bitsdojo_window/bitsdojo_window.dart';

void main() {
  runApp(MyApp());
  doWhenWindowReady(() {
    final win = appWindow;
    final initialSize = Size(600, 450);
    win.minSize = initialSize;
    win.size = initialSize;
    win.alignment = Alignment.center;
    win.title = "Custom window with Flutter";
    win.show();
  });
}

const borderColor = Color(0xFF805306);

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
        debugShowCheckedModeBanner: false,
        home: Scaffold(
            body: WindowBorder(
                color: borderColor,
                width: 1,
                child: Row(children: [LeftSide(), RightSide()]))));
  }
}

const sidebarColor = Color(0xFFF6A00C);

class LeftSide extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return SizedBox(
        width: 200,
        child: Container(
            color: sidebarColor,
            child: Column(
              children: [
                WindowTitleBarBox(child: MoveWindow()),
                Expanded(child: Container())
              ],
            )));
  }
}

const backgroundStartColor = Color(0xFFFFD500);
const backgroundEndColor = Color(0xFFF6A00C);

class RightSide extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Expanded(
        child: Container(
            decoration: BoxDecoration(
              gradient: LinearGradient(
                  begin: Alignment.topCenter,
                  end: Alignment.bottomCenter,
                  colors: [backgroundStartColor, backgroundEndColor],
                  stops: [0.0, 1.0]),
            ),
            child: Column(children: [
              WindowTitleBarBox(
                  child: Row(children: [
                Expanded(child: MoveWindow()),
                WindowButtons()
              ])),
            ])));
  }
}

final buttonColors = WindowButtonColors(
    iconNormal: Color(0xFF805306),
    mouseOver: Color(0xFFF6A00C),
    mouseDown: Color(0xFF805306),
    iconMouseOver: Color(0xFF805306),
    iconMouseDown: Color(0xFFFFD500));

final closeButtonColors = WindowButtonColors(
    mouseOver: Color(0xFFD32F2F),
    mouseDown: Color(0xFFB71C1C),
    iconNormal: Color(0xFF805306),
    iconMouseOver: Colors.white);

class WindowButtons extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Row(
      children: [
        MinimizeWindowButton(colors: buttonColors),
        MaximizeWindowButton(colors: buttonColors),
        CloseWindowButton(colors: closeButtonColors),
      ],
    );
```

# ❤️ **Sponsors - friends helping this package**

I am developing this package in my spare time. 
If you want to help so that I can dedicate more time for this, you can become a supporter.

🙏 Thank you!

## ☕️ Coffee supporters:
Helping with a coffee every month:

 - [Aivan Monceller](https://github.com/geocine)

Want to help? [Become a sponsor](https://github.com/sponsors/bitsdojo)
